---
title: "Kraft WG, August 14, 2024"
tags: unikraft, kraft, krafkit, tooling
datetime: 2024-08-14T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- kraft
participants:
- RăzvanD
- AndreiS
- Cezar
- AlexJ
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

AS: I changed the command a bit, because I now need to pass certain libraries to it.

AJ: I'll have to double check with respect to libraries.

AS: initrd and 9pfs work.
We don't have a way to detect if 9pfs is part of the Xen work.

AJ: This is Xen specific.

AJ: What is the state of the virtio and 9pfs in Xen?

AS/RD: This hasn't yet started.
It will probably happen next year, the earliest.

AJ: We'll probably do some intermediary release for some bug fixes.

AJ: When we have Xen added, we will probably do a 0.10 release.

RD: There have been recent additions to the booting process for Unikraft, that require new types of builds.
They are currently handled via the manual build-run workflow.

RD: Should these be handled by KraftKit at some poiint.

AJ: We need a conversation to better understand the high-level points, before proceeding.
A document with this overview is a good starting point.

RD: This still requires work to be done.
Documentation can be handled afterwards.
And then we'll schedule a meeting.
Realistically, this will happen in October.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

AJ: Provide feedback to the Xen PR.
Aim to have it included in the next release.

AS: Document the Xen configuration to add 9pfs support.

RD: Shepherd the documentating of different booting workflows.
Then schedule a meeting with booting and KraftKit teams.
