---
title: "Maintainers Meeting, April 29, 2024"
tags: unikraft, maintainers
datetime: 2024-04-29T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- maintainers
participants:
- RăzvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

* Items for release 0.17: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/milestone/19
* Items for next release (0.18)
* Plat re-arch status and continuation
* Atomic macros: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/645
* SMP support
* Security policy
* Others

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Release 0.17

The boot pages rework is mostly done.
There is no difference in performance.

Instead of updating page tables, to create a new page tables, to facilitate the boot process.
Either way, because the page table are a critical part of the boot process, we don't want to make this worse.
This idea was from Sergiu.

If there is a bottleneck, it masks any benefit we may have.
This PR depends on the PR from Sergiu.

### Release 0.18

CCA PR rework by Michalis

Follow up work SEV after CCA.

Rewrite of VFS

The crashdump PR, the ARM part is not done at all.
It should also be done on top of an stack alignment for exceptions PR.

Re-arch `lcpu` for 0.18.

### CI/CD Integration

The merge was not triggered, because the libc test is failing.

If the merge label doesn't work, maybe it makes sense to disable it.

### Plat re-arch

It's more on the best effort side.

Continue discussions and try to push things in the new structure.

We want a bit backwards with plat re-arch.
We want to get lcpu out.
This should be planned for 0.18.
And then we move paging.
And then we move booting.

Small things that are more like housekeeping can be delegated to community owners, such as Rareș.

### SMP

SMP steps:

1. internal scheduler data structure synchronization
1. ACPI support
1. SMP-aware scheduling

### synchronization Macros

The wrapper is problematic (https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/645).
Maybe it would be fine to just use the compiler-like builtins.

SK: It's simplifying for the common case.

We had a move to the `ukatomic` library.

MS: If we want more control, we can use the compiler builtin.
Or we introduce more macros for all cases.

SK: Prefer to have specific macros.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

CC: Work on fixing the CI/CD issues.

The CI/CD is going to integrated in the 0.17 release.

CC: Disable the `merge` tag.

SK: Look into Marco's crash dump and come up with a proposal land.

SW: Continue working on ACPI support.

Keep the macros related to synchronization and expand them.
Redo the discussion in the next maintainers meeting.
