---
title: "Maintainers Meeting, September 16, 2024"
tags: unikraft, maintainers
datetime: 2024-09-16T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#maintainers-voice` voice channel
teams:
- maintainers
participants:
- RăzvanD
- Simon
- Sergiu
- Michalis
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Current build / run issues: awareness, next steps
- [Next release items](https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/47)
- Testing infrastructure
- Storing unstructured documentation
- Others

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Current Build / Run Issues

There are issues with Xen and ARM builds.

MP: Any reason for not adding them as issues.

RD: It was lack of time and oversight from my side.
I will create issues.

### Next Release Items

Link: https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/47

MP: There is a linker-related issue with the `uklibparam`.

SM: On the Firecracker-related issue, we should disable Firecracker.

RD: There is another issue with networking not working.

There is an issue with `ld`: 2.40

Firecracker on ARM64 doesn't work with the latest version of Unikraft.

Issues with the default hardware randomization.
Anything that doesn't require randomness won't use `ukrand`.
I replaced the insecure randomness with a way of passing the initial seed from the command line.
As a feature it looks nicer that simply using insecure randomness.

Suspend `ukprint` for a short while.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RD: Document issues.

MP: Handle Clang ARM64 issue.

SK/MP: Decide on the solution to disable VGA for Firecracker, considering the plat re-arch best use.

MP/SM: Decide on the integration of MRD creation moved to some place more appropriate.

SK: Make decision on vfork: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/1386

MP: Document a short issue on ukprint.
