---
title: "Maintainers Meeting, April 12, 2024"
tags: unikraft, maintainers
datetime: 2024-04-12T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- maintainers
participants:
- Marc
- Michalis
- RăzvanD
- Sergiu
- Simon
---

## :dart: Agenda

## Discussions

MP: I wanted to get design decisions from you, Marc.

We have boot page tables (bpts).
There is a hardcoded unmap region (`bpt_unmap_mrd`).
It defines where the unmapings start and end.

At some point we configure the early boot stack and MMU.
And then we run in the bpts.

Then we jump to the early functions in `setup.c`.
Initialize devices, memory, paging, some other devices (such as RTC) and then jump to `ukboot`.

SK: I'm wondering if we can minimize `setup.c` as simple as we can.

MP: `ukplat_mem_init()`
It reads hardcoded MRD descriptors.

After inserting the unmap regions, it will iterate and discover any MRDs.

Then it will delete the MRDs from boot info.

SM: We use the regions when we use the ACPI.
The `ukplat_memregions_list_delete()` are horrible because they do the equivalent of `memmove`.

MP: For ARM CCA you need to access devices from unprotected memory.
Unprotected IPA Alias.
You mask the regular address with the unprotected mask.

MP: One problem is you don't know where the region will be located.
The other problem is don't know what you can unmap.

### Gist of Main Proposal

MP: I didn't like the hardcoded MRD.
It defines theoretical limits of the platform.

MP: You kind of defines the limits of the page tables.

This is 4GB for x86.
And I think 256GB for ARM.

Most descriptions are from ARM because I wanted to fix ARM CCA.

SK: We need to consider all they hypervisors.

MR: We need to define the boundaries of the page table.

On x86, you only know at runtime what the width of your address space are.

MP: The reason I want this because I want the references to unmapping.

SM: We can avoid having these definitions by allowing drivers do their job and define stuff for themselves, it is part of my idea that i mentioned we can discuss later.

SK: I think Marc is question why the current limit regions are there.

SM: We can get rid of all the unmap limits.
The issue you don't know at runtime where the device regions are.

SM: The only drivers that need these mappings are the early ones.
These are supposed to be known before the buses are initialized.

SM: The BIOS tell you about reserved regions.

MP: The next ideas is let boot info only contain regions that are mapped or soone to be mapped, as valid memory regions.
You know later where there these regions are mapped.

MR: The implementation in the PR may work in this particualar case, but in general is problematic as map will return EEXIST even if part of the region is mapped.

SM: We could instead create a new set of page tables and switch to that. That would avoid unmaps that require expensive TLB invalidates.

MP: Okay. We can consider that implementation and run some performance tests.

MP: The above require that early devices add their mrds into bootinfo so that they are not unmapped at paged memory init. For these I introduce a new UKPLAT_MEMRT_DEVICE type that memory init essentially ignores as it expects that these regions are already in use by early devices and thus have the right protections.

SK: We may need to reconsider the name, maybe something more generic.

MP: We also need a new boot stage for early devices. In the future to be implemented via inittab. For now simply implemented as a function in kvm/arm64. No action for x86, as it has no early MMIO devices. This is invoked right after the stack and MMU are set, and before bootinfo_setup. Drivers can use the same facilities as bootinfo_setup to query the firmware (libfdt / ACPI) on their regions, command line, etc. This fits nicely to future rearch plans of ukboot, should be the first thing to run as soon as we enter ukboot.

MP: The above also affect non-early devices. These will need to map their MMIO regions too. We already introduced pf_dev_remap in ukbus for FC.

MP: This concludes the proposal, in the future we can also implement a library for low-level PT manipulation that does not depend on paging. That fits nicely into our architecture model as it can also implement the driver side of the paging library. That allows among others to have compile-generated bpts.

MR: Absolutely, I had something similar in mind when I implemented paging.

SM: Does that mean we deprecate static bpts?

MP: No, we should keep static bpts. They are a must-have for use-cases that don't use paging, and perhaps others too. But we can consider if we want to provide the *option* to run without bpts. It can be useful for other use-cases like boundaryless PIE where bpts map all memory in bpts as RWX, and early devices update the protections of their regions.

SM: I don't think it's necessary, as it does not provide any benefit. I think it's reasonable for each platform to provide its bpts as platforms clearly define their memory map.

MP: That's true, but it doesn't also cause any drawback either, so it doesn't hurt to be there as an option, even if we don't use it ourselves. It also makes a nice non-urgent project for GSoC / student thesis.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

Agrement on [Michalis's PR](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/1373).
Have this PR part of releae 0.17.

**Re-arch decisions:**
* Platforms add definitions of the limits of their bpts
* Bootinfo to contain only valid mrds
* Add early_init boot-stage before bootinfo setup
* Early devices to add mrds of their own MMIO regiopns into bootinfo
* Late devices to dynamically map their MMIO regions

**TODO:** Plan future discussions on plat re-arch.
