---
title: "Maintainers Meeting, May 27, 2024"
tags: unikraft, maintainers
datetime: 2024-05-27T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- maintainers
participants:
- RăzvanD
- Michalis
- Alex
- Sergiu
- Ștefan
- Cezar
- Thassilo
---

## :dart: Agenda

* 0.17 and 0.18 releases
* Atomic macros: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/645
* Others

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Release 0.17 and 0.18

RD: We are going to do the 0.17 release this week.

RD: The multi-process and VFS rework PRs are left for next release.

3 decisions:

* Do the 0.17 release this week.
* As soon as possible after the release work on the multi-process and VFS rework PRs.
* RD will create a `preview` branch with features that are not going to be part of the release.
  `unikraft`, `lib-lwip`, `app-elfloader` and `lib-musl` will likely be affected.

AJ: Which PRs are in?
There are about [61 PRs open](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/milestone/19).

RD: I still have to do a cleanup on them.
Those where Simon is involved will be moved to 0.18.

MP: 1346 and 1373 (page memory init) are riskier.

MP: 1346 is theoretically ready to be merged now.

Let's have a branch with them to test extensively before merging.

### synchronization Macros

Keep the macros related to synchronization and expand them.
Redo the discussion in the next maintainers meeting.

### Tool to Bisect with PR Granularity

MP: This is a tool which allows to bisect at PR granularity.

MP: I have it in a private repository.
I can provide to interested parties.

### Merging Strategy

AJ: For `docs` I would prefer we use merge commits.

AJ: I would go for merge commits for all repositories but the core and library ones.

### Sponsorship

RD: We're now in contact with someone who wants to sponsor the Unikraft project.

RD: We will use the occasion to pull out of the backlog the idea of having sponsorships handled via GitHub sponsors and / or through our [OpenCollective instance](https://opencollective.com/unikraft).

AJ: It's a more formal token of being part of the community.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

MP: Provide branch for testing.

RD: Test risky PRs on a branch.

RD: Open up discussion with Simon and Marco on [atomic macros](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/645)

Topic for next discussion:

* PR bisecting tool
* Merging strategy for repositories

RD: Open discussion with `docs` vs `www` naming for repository.

RD: Create `preview` branch.

RD: Do a cleanup of release items [0.17 PRs](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/milestone/19).

RD: Handle 0.17 release.
