---
title: "Maintainers Meeting, August 5, 2024"
tags: unikraft, maintainers
datetime: 2024-08-05T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#maintainers-voice` voice channel
teams:
- maintainers
participants:
- RăzvanD
- Michalis
- AndreiT
- ȘtefanJ
- Thassilo
- Sergiu
- Simon
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Next release

## :closed_book: Discussions

RD: I send some messages on the Discord channel.
Out of the [open PRs](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pulls) I created a [Git project](https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/47/views/2) for the next release.

We won't schedule a timeline for the next release, but it should happen as soon as possible.
I will assign reviewers and push for progress on items.

SK: Usability-related PRs should be prioritized.

SK: POSIX Signals and shutdown would need to be moved to the next release.

For the next release:
- fixes
- ukconsole
- GDB integration with ukconsole from Thassilo, to be provided as a PR in the next days.
- execve (as best effort item)
- HW randomization fix / update

For the next2 release: POSIX signals & shutdown

For the next3 release: VFS-related items, CCA (as orthogonal work from Michalis)

TS: We don't need [#1114](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/1114) as a hard requirement, but it will improve the GDB work.

MP: The ARM-part of `#1114` is broken.

AT: Some code naively translates a NULL pointer to an errno code, in PR [1453](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/1453).
It's much clear to check for NULL or an error code, rather than having a macro that does both.

MP: Why do we choose to use a patch release (0.17.1), and not a full one (0.18)?

RD: This is just something I noted.

MP/RD/SK: We'll use "Release - Next" for the GitHub project for the release name.
If it's a fix-only release we'll do patch release.
If more important items, we'll do a full release.
And then we renamed it back to the actual release.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

MP/RD: Add HW randomization update PR in the current release.

Three milestones:

- Milestone 1: fixes, `docs`, `catalog`, ukconsole, HW randomization update, `execve`, initialization items
- Milestone 2: POSIX signal, shutdown features
- Milestone 3: VFS, CCA / security items (on best effort basis from Michalis)

RD: Create projects for the other two milestones.
Announce them on the maintainers thread.

TS: Provide GDB integration PR with ukconsole.

MP/SK: Look into the [#1114](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/1114) PR.

SJ: Add items in `docs`, `catalog` and `catalog-for-maintainers` repositories to the 3 projects (0.17.1, 0.17.2, 0.7.13).

To discuss in the next meeting: to have some automated release naming - have the patch level derive the name part of the CI pipeline, staging-to-stable move.

RD: Assign reviewers + ping people + draft release notes (+ RV).
