---
title: "UPB Group Gathering, April 9, 2024"
tags: unikraft, community
datetime: 2024-04-091T08:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- community
participants:
- Ștefan
- Luca
- Mihnea
- MariaP
- RăzvanD
- Sergiu
- RobertZ
- Cezar
- RalucaP
- AndreiS
- AdinaV
- MariaS
- Șerban
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Community update
- Next events
- Release 0.17
- Round
- Burning questions round
- Others

## Discussions

### Community update

We plan release 0.17 to happen on April 15, 2024 (feature freeze), and on April 29, 2024 (actual release).

### Next events

April Hackathon: Saturday, April 27, 2024 - focus on the 0.17 release

GSoC applications were due April 2, 2024 - we will review them by April 24, 2024.

Zagreb hackathon: April 18-19, 2024

Unikraft Summer of Code: to decide timeline, format and contents

Open Source Summit EU: September 16-18, 2024, Vienna.
Submission deadline: April 30, 2024

Student Scientific Session: May 11, 2024

Xen Project Summit (RD, AS, MS): June 4-6, 2024

### Release 0.17

See all items [here](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/milestone/19).

RăzvanV will be back with reminders to do reviews.

Pleaee take time to work on items.
We want to have items in by the feature freze deadline on April 15, 2024.

### Round

#### Ștefan Jumărea

SJ: I implemented MTE in Musl for all allocators.
It works for synthetic tests.
I tried with Nginx.

### Rareș Miculescu

RM: I created the PRs to update data types.
I want to complete the data types PRs by the release time: plat, kvm, x86 and the rest.

### Luca Serițan

LS: I was able to do a PR for environment variables in KraftKit.

LS: These are passed in the command line or in the `Kraftfile`.

LS: I updated KraftKit to be able to have both 

LS: I have a long list of small things.

LS: Think of evalution items.

### Robert Zamfir

RZ: I was able to run helloworld static on ARM64.

RZ: Issues:

- I didn't select a proper FP option.
- There was a `stat` structure issue.

RZ: I'm now working on networking support.
It crashes.

#### Adina Vaman

AV: The ELF parser is now integrated with VMI.

AV: I tried to see why Nginx is not working.

AV: I thought of adding support for `uksched`.
I am walking through the thread list.

RD: Resume prof-meeting.

#### Raluca Pelin

RP: I read the AMI-related issue.

RP: I programanatically managed an AMI Linux image.
I started a server and I used gRPC to interact with it.

RP: I will look into modifying the server to upload a Unikraft image.

#### Daria Moldovan

DM: I work on VMware support.

DM: I tested `e1000` and `vmxnet3`.
On ESXi there is an issue with `vmxnet3`.

DM: I tested Nginx.

#### Șerban Sorohan

SS: I think PIE and runtime ASLR may be made to work.
There are some things happening.

#### Andrei Stan

AS: I was left of the PVH support for Xen:

1. The boot part
1. The pagin part

I only started.

It crashes early in PVH.

AS: The bincompat part should work by default.

## TODOs and Decisions

Everyone: Work on [release 0.17 items](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/milestone/19).

AV: Report issue on `app-nginx`.

DM: Ask Paul related to `vmxnet3` for ESXi issue.

SS: Investigate what is failing when using runtime library randomization with PIE.

RD/AS: Insist on getting feedback for KraftKit Xen support.

RD: Arrange discussion with Ștefan on organizing USoC.
