---
title: "UPB Group Gathering, April 23, 2024"
tags: unikraft, community
datetime: 2024-04-161T08:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- community
participants:
- RăzvanD
- Andrei
- MariaS
- MariaP
- Șerban
- ȘtefanJ
- LucaS
- RareșM
- Adina
- Robert
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Round
- Burning questions round
- Others

## Discussions

### Round

#### Andrei Stan

#### Luca Serițan

LS: Now you can create named volumes.
And now you can create a volume backed by 9pfs.

#### Robert Zamfir

Make `http-reply` work.

I bumped into a case where I got crash.

There was a local variable that when unused, it crashed.

Now accept works, the idle thread is started.
This gets a crash in an `enable_irqs` on the idle thread.

#### Ștefan Jumărea

SJ: I made Nginx work.
There was a glitch with the `free()`.

SJ: Redis also now works.

SJ: Python has an internal object allocator.

#### Luca Serițan

LS: I completed the PR with the CLI.

LS: I started the volume support command.
I wait on some feedback from Alex.
We want to allow volumes locally.
They will use 9pfs support.

LS: There are some secret configurations that should be mounted.

LS: The `volume` command is now integrated.

#### Ștefan Jumărea

SJ: I continued testing MTE for all apps.
All apps but for Python.

SJ: I will look into evaluation.

#### Adina Vaman

AV: I looked into uksched in order to list threads.

AV: I am able to list all threads.

AV: I was looking into integrating a symbol resolution.

#### Raluca Pelin

RP: Alex showed us a component that's using AMI.
I looked at the repository.
It's a daemon that runs on an EC2 instance.

RP: It doesn't work locally.
I tried running it on EC2.

RP: On Amazon it doesn't work, it requires a larger machine.
I will try to build.

RP: I work with the Docker registry with Kraft (do `kraft pkg push`).

#### Șerban Sorohan

SS: I was able to make ASLR work with PIE.

SS: There is a `libc` test that fails.

#### Robert Zamfir

RZ: When using `http_c` as a static ARM64 and it blocks on `accept`.
It now fails because of a lacking 

#### Maria Pană

MP: I tried to look into the synchronization issue with Hyper-V support.
There seems to be another problem.

## TODOs and Decisions

LS: Create a PR with volume integration in compose.

LS: Do evaluation.

SJ: Do evaluation.

AV: Create proposal with how software artifacts will look like.

AV: Post Nginx issue on 14k.

RD: Schedule app-compat, KraftKit, and bench-prof meeetings.

SS: Test all application from `catalog`.

RD: Check out if we can access and ARM64 system to test bincompat.

RZ: Try using a another blocking / yielding syscall (`sched_yield`).

MP: I would go into another track.

RD: Reply to USoC'24 thread.
