---
title: "UPB Group Gathering, August 27, 2024"
tags: unikraft, community
datetime: 2024-08-27T08:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- community
participants:
- RăzvanD
- AdinaV
- FlorinC
---

## :dart: Agenda

- TODOs, next steps, project ideas
- Others

## Discussions

### VMI

AV: I haven't yet been able to create the README for VMI.
I will do it in the next days.

RD: I plan to assign 2-3 people to validate the VMI implementation.
I will add them to Discord and then ask you for support to question they may have.

AV: The first step is setting up their KVM infrastructure, so that's something documented.

AV: I would like to continue my involvement in the community and work on something.
Prefered track would more on the lower-layers of the Unikraft stack.

RD: I'm working on collecting TODO items, next steps and assigning them to potential interested students.

### VMware

FC: I have VMware working on the latest version of Unikraft (`staging`).
I tested `helloworld`, not yet `nginx`.
There were some updates I had to do after the early init PR work.

RD: It's very good you have it work.
It's important to hve it aligned to the Unikraft upstream (`staging`).
It is however, reliant on the plat re-arch track, so it will take a bit for it to be done.

## TODOs and Decisions

AV: Create README to test / run VMI.

FC: Ask about VGA message rendering on the `#plat-vmware` channel.

FC: Next steps are:

1. Create drafts for research report.
1. Look into VGA issue.
1. Run Nginx on top of Unikraft VMware.
1. Keep VMware port aligned with Unikraft `staging`.
1. Run bincompat apps with VMware.
1. Add storage support for VMware.

RD: Get 2-3 people to validate the VMI work.

RD: Create list of TODOs, projects, tracks that people could work on.
