---
title: "UPB Group Gathering, April 30, 2024"
tags: unikraft, community
datetime: 2024-04-161T08:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- community
participants:
- RăzvanD
- AndreiS
- Șerban
- ȘtefanJ
- LucaS
- RareșM
- Viorel
- Radu
- Raluca
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Round
- Burning questions round
- Others

## Discussions

### Release 0.17

### Round

#### Șerban Șorohan

SS: There are issue with heap randomization on bincompat with heap.

SS: I will investigate the configuration setup.

#### Raluca Pelin

RP: I managed to run the AMI builder program.
It didn't work out of the box.
Each OCI has the architecture and OS.

RP: Currently the builder is defaulting to x86_64 and Linux.

RP: I want to create an end-to-end 

RP: I need to createa queues in a programatic way.

#### Luca Serițan

RP: I'm working on an internal DNS similar to how Docker maps.

#### Radu Nichita

RN: I'm porting the most popular Go Ethereum client.

RN: I hit an issue with DNS querying.

#### Ștefan Jumărea

SJ: I did tests for MTE.
I benchmarked Redis.

#### Rareș Miculescu

RM: I reviewed the PRs assigned to me.

RM: Plan to work on ukcpu.

#### Andrei Stan

AS: I worked on PVH support.
I keep porting miniOS.

AS: I did some reviews on Sunday.

AS: On the KraftKit side, ping Cezar.

## TODOs and Decisions

SS: Create table with application behaviors.

SS: Investigate different configurations of applications.

RP: Ask Alex about per-user queues.

RP: Create end-to-end implementation.

RN: Create a minimal setup with networking.

RN: Create a PR with `renameat` syscall for initrd.

LS: Create a simple setup with a DNS server.

LS: Create a draft PR with CoreDNS on catalog.

RD: Ask Pierre, Marting and Mihai Carabaș about ARM64 systems.

SJ: Clean up work and submit PR to Musl.

RD: Submit Xen Summit design session description.

RD: USoC thread reply.
