---
title: "UPB Group Gathering, April 16, 2024"
tags: unikraft, community
datetime: 2024-04-161T08:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- community
participants:
- RăzvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Round
- Burning questions round
- Others

## Discussions

### Round

#### Robert Zamfir

Make `http-reply` work.

I bumped into a case where I got crash.

There was a local variable that when unused, it crashed.

Now accept works, the idle thread is started.
This gets a crash in an `enable_irqs` on the idle thread.

#### Ștefan Jumărea

SJ: I made Nginx work.
There was a glitch with the `free()`.

SJ: Redis also now works.

SJ: Python has an internal object allocator.

#### Luca Serițan

LS: I completed the PR with the CLI.

LS: I started the volume support command.
I wait on some feedback from Alex.
We want to allow volumes locally.
They will use 9pfs support.

LS: There are some secret configurations that should be mounted.

#### Raluca Pelin

RP: I created a gRPC service that would use 

RP: I use the command to load an image.into an instance.

RP: The next steps is to start the image and to load it into an S3 bucket.

RP: In order to create an image, the instance needs to reboot itself.

#### Andrei Stan

AS: I completed the KraftKit Xen support.

AS: There is an issue with fast booting apps.

AS: I spent time looking into the MiniOS PVH code and the KVM part we have in Unikraft.

#### Șerban Sorohan

SS: There is a base address that's hardcoded in the `multiboot.S`.

SS: I will need to generate the new base address.

## TODOs and Decisions

RZ: Create issue with the crash on `app-elfloader`.

SJ: Ask internally and the Python dev community on using MTE in conjunction with the allocators.

SJ: Work on analysis of results.
Then move on to other apps: SQLite, Lua, Go, Rust.

LS: Ask for feedback from Alex on volume.
And investigate 9pfs specification on 

RD/RP: Schedule a call with Alex.

AS: Remind Alex / Cezar about the Xen integration in KraftKit.

SS: Ask Sergiu about the approach to update the base addresss in `multiboot.S`.
