---
title: "UPB Group Gathering, March 26, 2024"
tags: unikraft, community
datetime: 2024-03-191T08:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- community
participants:
- Ștefan
- Luca
- Mihnea
- MariaP
- RăzvanD
- Sergiu
- RobertZ
- Cezar
- RalucaP
- AndreiS
- AdinaV
- MariaS
- Șerban
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Community update
- Diploma project updates
- Near term items (work items, events)
- Burning questions round
- Round
- Others

## Discussions

### Community update

March hackathon: March 30, 2024; focus on application support, release 0.17, GSoC items

We plan to organize USoC'24.

We will be part of Xen Summit in Lisbon, June 4-6, 2024.

We will take part in DORS/CLUC conference in Zagreb.
We will do a hackathon on Saturday-Sunday, May 18-19, 2024.

### Round

#### Adina Vaman

AV: I'm using `libvmi` to access profiling information from Unikraft.

AV: Then I did stack unwinding.
Currently I'm reading from physical addresses to do address mapping.
I used the `.dbg` version to get the symbols.

AV: I profiled Nginx and found an issue.

AV: I was looking into building the KVM out-of-tree.

#### Andrei Stan

AS: I created a draft PR fro KraftKit support.

#### Maria Sfîrăială

MS: I thought the QEMU was an intermediary step towards the diploma project.

RD: It's part of the track, we will see how this goes.

#### Carol Bontaș

CB: I continued using the build.

#### Daria Moldovan

DM: I work on the VMware support for Unikraft.

DM: One image had an issue with a networking driver on e1000.

#### Luca Serințan

LS: I'm working on the volume support in Unikraft.

LS: A good idea would be to build all images with 9p.

LS: There's a glitch with using -v.

#### Maria Pană

MP: I work on Hyper-V.

MP: There is a synchronization function that ends up calling other function.

MP: I need to figure out all the functions that are involved in this problem.

#### Raluca Pelin

RP: I work on the support for AMI images.

RP: I surveyed how AMI images work.

#### Robert Zamfir

RZ: I work on bincompat.

RZ: I encoutered a problem 

#### Șerban Sorohan

SS: I work on memory randomization.

SS: The implementation is quite done.
I need to test with PIE.

## TODOs and Decisions

RD: Ask for review of PR on Xen for KraftKit.

RD: Call with Alex on AMI support.

RD: Call with Simon and Sergiu on Xen Support.
