---
title: "UPB Group Gathering, May 21, 2024"
tags: unikraft, community
datetime: 2024-05-211T08:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- community
participants:
- RăzvanD
- AndreiS
- ȘtefanJ
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Round
- Burning questions round
- Others

## Discussions

### Release 0.17

RD: I will be back with review requests for release 0.17, for those that are still under work.

### Round

#### ȘtefanJ

MTE is complete.

I will do a submission to upstream next week.

#### AndreiS

I tried in the weekend to link KraftKit with the Xen libraries.

There is a runtime error.

When linking dynamically it works, but when linking statically it doesn't work.
The destroy part fails in the Xen library-based on a command triggered from KraftKit.

#### ȘerbanS

There was an issue with the heap base randomization.
I fixed it, but with paging enable, the base physical address of the heap.

#### Daria

I managed to get the new version, with all commits included.

VMware does some weird things with the bootup.

The workaround works for most applications.

I installed VMware Workstation Player.
I cannot test everything.

## TODOs and Decisions

SJ: Create upstream PR to Musl with MTE support.

RD: Provide access to macOS device to check for MTE support.

SJ: Create landing page for USoC.

SJ: Investigate what devices provide ARM chips with MTE support.

SS: Start discussion with Sergiu, Hugo, Răzvan related to randomizing the base heap physical address.

SS: Investigate randomization of stack base address when new threads are created.

SS: Look into randomizing base image address at runtime when PIE is enabled.

RD: Setup access to VMware ESXi.

RD: Install system running VMware Workstation on Linux.
