---
title: "Technical Oversight Committee Meeting, January 8, 2025"
tags: unikraft, toc
datetime: 2025-01-08T10:00:00+02:00
location: Google Meet
teams:
- toc
participants:
- RăzvanD
- Michalis
- Felipe
- Alex
- Marc
- Simon
---

## :dart: Agenda

- TOC Meeting recurrence and timeslot
- OSS meetings - proposal: once a week, two meetings: core and ecosystem
- Release schedule - proposal: schedule once every 3 months, use `Release - Next`, `Release - Next 2`, `Release - Next 3` GitHub projects
- Alignment of `unikraft.org/unikraft` and `unikraft.io/unikraft`
- Deployment of Unikraft OSS components on Unikraft Cloud
- Roadmap / Items for `Release - Next`
- General scope of the project, as that affects follow up topics such as maintainer assignment.
  - governance: company / community
  - technical scope: cloud / general purpose unikernel
  - indicated build / manage method: kraft / make

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Meeting Schedule

TOC meeting to happen once every month, on Wednesday, 10:00-11:00, after the scrum.

We will have two monthly OSS meetings: one for core, one for ecosystem.
Razvan will arrange the meetings.
Michalis will lead core meetings, Razvan will lead ecosystem meetings.

### Alignment of unikraft.io / unikraft.cloud

We are trying to minimize diffs from `unikraft.io/unikraft` to `unikraft.org/unikraft`.

In the ideal, a bug fix on the commercial side would be upstreamed on Unikraft OSS.

Whenever we do a Unikraft OSS, the company side is going to be rebased on top of Unikraft OSS.

### Next Release Features / Items

There are proprietary features for commercial OSS builds.

Items for the next release: vfscore, the multiprocess work, signals

MP: We rely on the internal company planning discussion for the release items.
After the internal planning discussion we can do one on OSS.

### Release Schedule

AJ: We should be doing releases more often.
The once-every-three-months schedule doesn't work.

RD/MP/SK: This doesn't apply to Unikraft core:

- There is an emphasis on quality control on Unikraft core.
  A PR may be in active discussion / development for weeks.
- The involvement from people is not constant.
  A release schedule allows people to focus for a given outcome.
- There are so many features that can be turned in something useful / relevant for users / developers.
- Dependencies among different components (core and libraries) and requirements for intensive testing (not yet there), makes this unfeasible.

We could consider doing rolling releases of the ecosystem as a whole (including KraftKit, catalogs), as they are things closer to the user and they may easier get a benefit from those.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RD: Go through Unikraft internal vs Unikraft OSS workflow: https://github.com/unikraft-io/governance-policy/blob/main/docs/Repository_Management_%26_Development_Process/Repository_Management_%26_Development_Process.md

RD: Schedule one our full meeting on general scope of the project.

RD: Arrange monthly TOC, core and ecosystem meetings.

Everyone: Have a thought on a rolling release of the ecosystem + announcements.

We stick, for now, to a once every three month release window.
