---
title: "Baremetal, Embedded, Drivers, August 27, 2024"
tags: unikraft, drivers, embedded, baremetal
datetime: 2024-08-27T10:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- embedded
participants:
- RăzvanD
- SergiuM
- MihneaF
- Michalis
- Thassilo
- AndreiS
- Job
---

## :dart: Agenda

- GSoC projects
- R-Pi Project State
- Xen on Embedded
- Anything else on embedded / baremetal

## :closed_book: Discussions

### GSoC projects

MF: I worked on the project with program headers.

MF: I'm still stuck.

### R-Pi Project State

JP: R-Pi working on R-Pi 3B.
It should work on R-Pi 3B+.

It has the network driver built-in.

It should work on R-Pi 4.

JP: I started from work 5 years ago.
Some parts could be reused, such as loading the device tree or the GIC from the Unikraft core.

JP: The memory is limited to 1GiB.
It would have the `common/arm64/` parts of Unikraft.

JP: Multi-core support.

TS: Couldn't the network driver be disabled?

JP: Another item could be making the other device work.

JP: I implemented the networking driver `uspi`.

RD: I aim to involve 2-3 students to replicate and validate your work on R-Pi.
This will provide insights of common issues to be documented.

RD: I am collecting TODO items and potential tracks for future people to get involved into.

Resources for R-Pi work:

- https://github.com/rsta2/uspi/tree/master
- https://github.com/jobpaardekooper/unikraft-rpi
- https://github.com/jobpaardekooper/unikraft-rpi/tree/measurements

RD: For drivers, we have had a student working on designing a driver shim layer, but that's a suspended project now.

### Xen on Embedded

AS/RD: There is an issue that Michalis discovered on the `arm-none` target for Xen.

AS: I haven't yet located the issue, I will do it in the next days.

AS: It appears somewhere between v0.16.3 and v0.17.

RD: There is a problem with a PR from Sergiu, but identifying the precise commit is difficult because the build fails.

RD: There is a connection with Stefano Stabellini from the Xen project.
Stefano works at AMD.
He is an active maintainer of Xen, Linux and ARM64-related topics.
He is looking for embedded virtualization (Xen) use cases for Unikraft.
This is something that just started.

RD: We are in active connection with the Xen community.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

MF: Provide update with current issue.

RD: Assign 2-3 students to replicate and validate the baremetal R-Pi work.

AS: Identify issue with `arm-none` target for Xen.

Next meeting takes place on Tuesday, September 10, 2024, 10am CEST.
