---
title: "Security WG, April 22, 2024"
tags: unikraft, security
datetime: 2024-04-22T11:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- security
participants:
- RăzvanD
- Michalis
- JeniR
- Hugo
- ȘtefanJ
- CarolB
- ȘerbanS
---

## :dart: Agenda

* Status updates
* Security policy

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Coverity

CB: I spent a lot of time making Coverity work automatically.

CB: It's better to have some manual code.

CB: Sometime ago, Coverity introduced CAPTCHAS.

### MTE

SJ: I fixed the issues with MTE.

NGINX, Redis, Lua works.

There is an issue with Python.

### ASLR

SS: I updated the PR, there are some fails with the libc-test.

SS: I tested helloworld, httpreply.

### Security Policy

What do we consider to be a security vulnerability?

HL: We want to have 

HL: If you run an application that's buggy, it's not a a vulnerability with the kernel / unikernel.

MP: Could there be some creative argumentation, but we can tackle it case-by-case basis.

How do we classify issues (severity)?

We have the CVSS that is not perfect.
We can look into alternatives.

Something that's more subjective may trigger other issues.

Qualcomm provided both a CVSS score and their own classification.

RD: We should map the read

What is the policy with security disclosure? How do we interact with CVE, how do we reward?

HL: We should have a deadline of 90 days until the issue is being solved.

HL: The security stuff is important for the company as well.

RD: How does it happen on other open source projects.

MP: It's difficult to have a better solution.

To assign CVEs:

* Get a CVE ID.
* Become a CNA.

MP: GitHub provides an external process for CVE management.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

JR: Provide update list of items on the document.

CB: Complete semi-automatic integration with Coverity.

CB: Prepare evaluation metrics for thesis.

SJ: Complete Python work.

SJ: Do measurements.

SJ: Cleanup code and prepare for submission.

SS: Test using `app-elfloader`.

HL: See how the GitHub CVE submission works.
