---
title: "Security WG, May 6, 2024"
tags: unikraft, security
datetime: 2024-05-06T11:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- security
participants:
- Hugo
- RăzvanD
- Michalis
- Șerban
- Jeni
- Thassilo
- fallenvalkyrie
---

## :dart: Agenda

* Status updates
* Security policy

## :closed_book: Discussions

### ASLR

SS: ASLR works for most cases.

SS: There was an issue preventing me to build `app-elfloader` because of the `CONFIG_LIBUKBOOT_HEAP_BASE` option.
I managed to disable that.

SS: However, the question remains related to the option.
It's a fixed address, incompatible with ASLR.

RD: Could we disable that and make ASLR work.

SS: Probably so, but we need to then consider which has greater priority: ASLR of the `HEAP_BASE` configuration.

### Security Policy

Proposal: Use GitHub for CVE submission.

Proposal: By default, 90 days to fix a vulnerability.

Governance is probably coming sooner than we plan.

Who takes ownership of fixing security issues (proprietary / OSS)?

Who is owning the asssignment of severity / priority-level?

Are fixes published? And if so, where?

MP: GitHub offers support in having the reporter be part of the meeting.

What is an actual vulnerability and not a vulnerability?

MP: This will involve some process.
It its something that's published in the catalog, we must include the fixes from the upstream.

MP: A supply chain is something we need to take care of.

MP: In the OSS the catalog is used at people's discretion.

MP: We need mechanisms for supply chain attacks.

MP: Defining what is a vulnerability is not the first item we need to address.

HL: The processes are more important.

### Fuzzing

I'm targeting to do a research work.

MP: This has to be done in a more coordinated way to settle an infrastructure for fuzzing.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

- SS/RD: Get answers from Simon / Sergiu regarding the `CONFIG_LIBUKBOOT_HEAP_BASE` config option.

- SS: Plan to finalize testing of ASLR.
  Plan to do evaluation (measure overhead incurred by randomization).

- JR: Polish the directions / tracks.

- RD/MP/HL: Schedule stakeholders meeting for security policy.
