---
title: "Security WG, April 8, 2024"
tags: unikraft, security
datetime: 2024-04-08T11:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- security
participants:
- RăzvanD
- Michalis
- SergiuM
- JeniR
- Hugo
- ȘtefanJ
- AlexA
- CarolB
---

## :dart: Agenda

* MTE in Musl
* Hardware / Architecture-related randomization
* Memory randomization
* Code reduction
* Static analysis
* Memory security, fuzzing
* Intel CET support
* ARM CCA / AMD SEV
* Page table protection

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Security Advisory

RD: We had a discussion about security advisory about 1 year ago.
We should bring this up and publish a security advisory.
Hugo had started the process some time ago.

HL: It's a good idea, we should do it.
Unikraft can be the emitter of CVEs.

### MTE in Musl

SJ: I added support for the other allocators in Musl.
It works when I run a simple buffer overflow.

SJ: Nginx fails.

MP: It's probable that you will discover bugs that weren't known.

### Hardware / Architecture-related randomization

AA: No update since last time.
Just a bit of Fortuna.

### Code Reduction

JR: I was going to looking at the print stats option.
It's a good idea to start from point.
It could count the number of lines.

JR: I looked for examples on reducing the numbers of code.

JR: I started reviewing all suggestions.

JR: I don't have a concrete idea of what to do next.

### Static Analysis

CB: I made the compilation coverage tool work with KraftKit.
When uploading it to Coverity, I identified some incorrect behavior.
I'm now working on the documentation.

CB: I would like to find an actual flaw.

RD: You can look in the history for times when there was a vulnerability that was fixed.
And then see if the current work is able to find that.

CB: Another possibility is to integrate other CodeQL.

### ARM CCA / AMD SEV

MP: For CCA, I opened an RFC PR with some prerequisite work such that early devices work with CCA.
This reworks the page memory initialization.

MP: I have CCA working on this.

MP: AMD SEV has a PR open on that.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RD: Add the security advisory topic on the next meeting.

SJ: Figure out what's wrong with Nginx on Musl and MTE.

AA: Continue working on Fortuna.

JR: Do a sorting of current suggestions.
Choose one, get feedback from the community.
And then start working on it, get initial results and we discuss next time.

CB: Run the tool on different apps.

CB: Provide documentation.

RD: Get 2-3 users to test the tool from Carol.

MP: Open discussion on plat re-arch call.

RD: Catch up with Kha Dinh on AMD SEV support.

Next meeting: Monday, April 22, 2024, 11:30am CEST.
