---
title: "Security WG, August 26, 2024"
tags: unikraft, security
datetime: 2024-08-26T17:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- security
participants:
- Hugo
- RăzvanD
- Carol
- Jeni
- Thassilo
---

## :dart: Agenda

* LoC Reduction
* Memory Randomization
* Static Analysis
* RNG
* MTE Integration in Musl
* Others

## :closed_book: Discussions

### LoC Reduction

JR: I tested Apache with libraries removed and it worked.

RD: Is there any measurement of how it compares to a typical build?
Image size, number of assembly lines of resulting image?

JR: Not yet, I will measure that.

### Memory Randomization

No update from Șerban.

### Static Analysis

CB: I found a small bug, but it's now fixed.
I need to update the documentation with it.

CB: We are limited to 3 runs per day given the way Coverity currently works.

RD: I will get some students to test your work, to validate it's all clear.

RD: To think of how can we integrate the static analysis tool in the Unikraft development / testing flow.
Security checking should happen periodically, particularly close to releases.

CB: I've drafted work on the thesis.
I will it for a review.

### RNG

No update from Alex.

### MTE Integration in Musl

No update from Ștefan.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RD: Ask for updates from Șerban, Alex, Ștefan.

RD: Find 2-3 students to test the static analysis tool from Carol.

CB: Provide draft of thesis.

JR: Continue LoC work:

1. Measure difference between non-LoC removal and LoC removal version of Nginx app on Unikraft.
1. Run with DCE (Dead-Code Elimination) enabled.
1. Build with Clang.
1. Look into removing entire files from the compilation step.
   This requires altering the `Makefile`.
1. Try with other applications: Redis, SQLite, see how it goes.

RD: Coordinate with Michalis on initial feedback on security policy document.

Next meeting: Monday, September 9, 2024, 5:30pm CEST.
We can discuss the status of the security policy document.
