---
title: "Security WG, August 12, 2024"
tags: unikraft, security
datetime: 2024-08-12T16:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- security
participants:
- Hugo
- RăzvanD
- Carol
- ȘtefanJ
- JeniR
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Security Policy

A document is now in review form, initiated by Hugo.

HL: Note that for review, anyone can and should directly edit the document.

RD: I propose we use the October 1, 2024, as deadline to have the security policy document / page ready.

### Line-of-code Reduction

JR: I was able to use Hugo's instructions to get the used / unused of system calls for Nginx.

JR: I have some issues with running Nginx on Unikraft.

JR: I'm now looking into disabling certain libraries from Unikraft that are not required (feature no system calls).

### MTE in Musl

SJ: I had submitted the 3rd round of patches some time ago.
Still no reply.

### Static Code Analysis

CB: I found a bug related to Unikraft versions, it's now being fixed.

CB: I have an early draft of the thesis.

### Memory Randomization

SS: No updates yet.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

Aim to have October 1, 2024, as deadline for the security policy.

RD: Talk to Michalis and stakeholder about the security policy document from Hugo.

RD: Find 2 people to use and review the static code analysis solution from Carol.

CB: Provide skeleton of thesis.

SJ: Do a periodic (once every week) reminder to the Musl community related to MTE on Musl.

JR: Low-priority: Have Redis and Python as targets for system call analysis for the LoC-reduction track.

RD: Assist Jeni with running Nginx on Unikraft.

RD: Discuss with Michalis el al. about the proposal of October 1, 2024 as deadline for publishing the security policy.
