---
datetime: 2024-08-28T11:30:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - plat-re-arch
participants:
  - Michalis
  - Rareș
  - RăzvanD
  - AndreiS
  - Sergiu
  - Thassilo
---

### Agenda

- Xen PVH
- TODO items & next steps of plat re-arch
- Others

### Discussions

### TODO Items & Next Steps

RD: I'm collecting next steps and ideas inside the community.
These fit two goals:

1. having an aligned view of what we want to do next
1. having items that newcomers or students or contributors can work on

MP: At this point, we need time allocation to complete work on three subtracks (that also have a level of intertwining):

- lcpu
- paging
- ukboot + ukinit

All three require very fundamental core decisions.

There are small things such as SMCC, PA, are already being handled by me.

MP: Get done with the testing infrastructure before starting this work.

MP: The platforms rely on this.

RD: The VMware track is going pretty well

SM: We would also need the Device Driver Framework.

RD: I would first w

RD: I will arrange to get time allocated for the track inside the company.

SMP is reliant on work being done on the plat re-arch track.

### Xen PVH

Make PVH port for Xen, a combo of hardware virtualization and paravirtualization.

Unikraft support Xen in PV mode.
PVH provides benefits

With PVH we can run bincompat without further modification to syscall table and paging.

PVH is very similar to KVM, the whole KVM.
Basically the whole KVM should run, apart from the entry point.

I would like to reuse most of the parts that are in KVM on PVH.

SM: You will boot the PVH boot protocol.
We have it open sourced somewhere.

AS: The boot protocol is not the difficult part.

AS: I was wondering if there is a situation for having some common part of `plat/kvm`.

MP: This is unfortunately the last part of plat re-arch.

SM: There is an up-to-date PVH entry that Stefano is using now.

AS: Are you talking about the entry that was taken a few years back?

SM: This is something new, a set of patches we created.

RD: Having PVH reliant on the plat re-arch track is additional motivation to have time allocated for this

### TODOs and Decisions

RD: Create discussion chat with Simon, Andrei (and Michalis and Sergiu) related to PVH entry point and boot protocol code.

RD: Work towards getting time allocated for the plat re-arch track.

AS: Have an out-of-tree setup for Xen PHV feature, until plat re-arch comes into play.

We meet next in the September 9-13, 2024 week, when Simon is available.
