---
datetime: 2024-06-13T14:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - gsoc
participants:
  - Cezar
  - Ujjwal
  - MariaP
  - MihneaF
  - SergiuM
  - RăzvanD
  - RăzvanV
  - RaduN
  - Sriprad
  - Yang Hu
  - Luca
  - CristiV
  - ȘtefanJ
---

### Agenda

- Status updates
- Next steps
- Blog posts

### Discussions

#### General Status Updates

RD: We'll do blog posts after 3 weeks of GSoC.

RD: After 3 more weeks you'll do another post.
That's also when the mid-term evaluation happens.

RD: Blog posts are to be done on the [`docs` repository](https://github.com/unikraft/docs).
See [blogs posts](https://unikraft.org/blog) and [corresponding PRs](https://github.com/unikraft/docs/pulls) from previous GSoC mentees, as examples.

RD: Be sure to keep a good conection with mentors.

RD: Ask for any resource or support you require.

RD: We're organizing periodic technical meetings.
Be part of those that interest you.

RD: Have a goal of creating a draft PR by the mid-term evaluation (6 weeks of GSoC).

#### Multiboot2

MP: I went through multiple Multiboot2 support implementations.

MP: I build GRUB from source.

MP: I will look into doing the first steps in the documentation.

#### UEFI GOP

SP: I'm implementing the hardcoded bitmap fonts rn, the work shall be public soon! will commit into the draft PR.

#### Linux Boot Protocol

MF: I've browsed the ARM implementation of lxboot.

MF: I'm now working on the `mk...` script.
No questions so far, I'll be back when I make progress.

#### Environment Variables

UM: I will start actual work next week.

RD: Be sure to make up for the lost time, you have 3 weeks until the mid-term evaluation.

#### Synchronization

YH: I'm looking into a memory allocation library.
I'm porting a header file from newlib, that's missing.

YH: I'm having some issues with the process generating header files in Musl.

RD: ȘtefanJ can assist with that, he has experience using Musl.

### TODOs and Decisions

- Mentees: write blog posts after 3 weeks until Wednesday, June 19, 2024

- Everyone: keep a good connection via Discord

- Mentees: beware of another 3 weeks until the mid-term evaluation

- Mentors / RD: review blog posts until Friday, June 21, 2024

- Mentees: Don't spend more than 2 hours block on an issue.
Ask your mentor or community for support.

- SJ: Assist Yang Hu in his Musl-related work.
