---
title: "Booting WG, August 20, 2024"
tags: unikraft, booting, boot, bootloaders
datetime: 2024-08-20T10:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- boot
participants:
- MariaP
- MihneaF
- Sriprad
- SergiuM
- RazvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Multiboot2

MP: I am working on polishing the PR.

RD: Turn the PR into a full PR (from the current draft PR state).

MP: There are some Python checkpatch issues that I don't understand.

RD: Let's focus on getting the PR to an optimal shape.
Then you can focus on other items:
* UEFI integration
* adding other tags

### LxBoot

MF: I'm facing an issue that I reported on Discord.

RD: Use Bless as a GUI tool for binary viewing (and editing).
Also look for a GUI tool to parse and present ELF binaries.
This would help you locate the issue faster.

RD: Sergiu and myself will look the issue.

### UEFI GOP

SK: I am close to complete the color codes support.

SK: After this, I could work on the pixel size.

RD/SM: This is not important, do this after GSoC.

SK: Another point is improved registration of GOP support.
This is reliant on ukconsole work that Sergiu is working on.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RD/SM: Provide feedback on Maria's PR.

RD/SM: Investigate Mihnea's issue.

MF: Investigate the offset issue.

MF: Use a Google Drive folder to store the resulting binaries.
When asking for support provide the link to the binary and the detailing of the issue.
Make sure to keep all variants of resulting binaries.

MP: Make the draft PR a full PR.

MP/SK: Work on blog post (deadline: Thursday, August 22, 2024).
Create final product (deadline: Saturday, August 24, 2024)

SK: Complete color codes support.

SK: Integrate feedback from Sergiu.

Everyone: Keep an active discussion on Discord, on the respective project threads.
