---
title: "Booting WG, July 23, 2024"
tags: unikraft, booting, boot, bootloaders
datetime: 2024-07-23T10:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- boot
participants:
- MariaP
- MihneaF
- Sriprad
- SergiuM
- RazvanD
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Multiboot2

MP: I'm now debugging the 

MP: I don't yet know the root cause for loading the stub at the specific address.
It should be able to load it at that address.
There is a possibility for something being part of that address.
These lead to the out-of-memory error.

MP: For the moment, I'm doing debugging of the function causing the error.

MP: I have the flow of things.
I'm doing the detective thing.

MP: Good news is that, if this works, booting into multiboot2 should be done.

### LxBoot

MF: When I boot, it only shows the BIOS boot message.
There's likely an infinite loop.

MF: I started debugging on Saturday, couldn't it figure out.

MF: I have to test QEMU with a Linux image.
It's the QEMU version that I modified.
Something doesn't show up when I try it to show up.

MF: If it doesn't work, it means there are likely issues on the code I added to QEMU.

MF: What I was using GDB and figure out where the booting process stops.

MF: If anything, we'll use Discord.

### UEFI GOP

SK: I do not have much progress for today's call.

SK: I will talk to Sergiu about updates to the PR.

SK: There is a new unified console interface.
We may look into integrating the console interface to GOP.

SK: The next step would be to provide an API interface for the rest kernel to work.

SK: Right now it just works with basic messages on the boot side.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

MP: Investigate root cause of Multiboot2 issue.

MF: Use a Linux target with LxBoot.
Identify what's causing the issue.

SK: Apply Sergiu's comments and feedback for your PR in a week's time.

RD: Work on items related to the next release, likely a dot release (0.17.1).
This will include booting-related PRs.
