---
title: "VMM WG, August 27, 2024"
tags: unikraft, vmm
datetime: 2024-08-27T09:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- vmm
participants:
- RăzvanD
- FlorinC
- Thassilo
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Xen
- VMware
- Hyper-V

## :closed_book: Discussions

We are pursuing multiple tracks in enhancing Unikraft support for different platforms (virtual machine monitors - VMMs and hypervisors).

KVM (with QEMU and Firecracker) is the main platform.
Xen is an in-tree platform.

VMware and Hyper-V are not-yet-supported platforms.
They will be out-of-tree platform, as separate repositories (`unikraft/plat-vmware` and `unikraft/plat-hyperv`).

VMware and Hyper-V integration rely on the completion of the "Platform Re-architecting" track (`plat re-arch`).
Once that is complete, VMware, Hyper-V and RISC-V support could be added.

### Xen

Xen support has improved lately, with input from AndreiS, Oleksii Moiseev and Michalis.

We now have Xen support for ARM64.

Unfortunately, we don't have a system that we could use for ARM64 development.
We're in talks with the university to have access to such a system.

There is a current issue with Xen on `arm-none` target that Andrei is looking into.

Two other tracks are:

* bincompat (x86_64) support for Xen
* Xen integration with KraftKit

Unfortunately, I will have to return the NXP ARM64 board in the next 2-3 weeks.

TS: Do we have access to an ARM64 system that we can use to test Firecracker?

RD: Michalis (via Simon) can get access to a baremetal Equinix service, but that's something you can discuss with them.

RD: We have access to a Mac Mini device running ARM64, but I don't know whether you can run KVM on it.

### VMware

FC: I have helloworld working with the most recent version of Unikraft.

FC: There is an issue with VGA rendering.

Next steps are:

1. Create drafts for research report.
1. Look into VGA issue.
1. Run Nginx on top of Unikraft VMware.
1. Keep VMware port aligned with Unikraft `staging`.
1. Run bincompat apps with VMware.
1. Add storage support for VMware.

### Hyper-V

RD: This is a track that has been suspended for the past half year.
We're looking to revive it.

RD: Helloworld is working, but there are issues with networking.
These are under investigation.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

TS: Discuss with Michalis about ARM baremetal access.

FC: Ask about VGA message rendering on the `#plat-vmware` channel.

FC: Next steps are:

1. Create drafts for research report.
1. Look into VGA issue.
1. Run Nginx on top of Unikraft VMware.
1. Keep VMware port aligned with Unikraft `staging`.
1. Run bincompat apps with VMware.
1. Add storage support for VMware.

RD: Look into alternative solutions for running ARM64-based systems.

RD: Get back in touch with Paul Vlase regarding Hyper-V work.

RD: Get back in touch with Maria Sfîrăială related to the project or running QEMU in Unikraft with Xen.
